# Threat Hunting: Foothold
## Inital Access
[Initial Access Tactic (TA0001)](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/)  
The primary objective during this phase is to gain a foothold in the network, which can be achieved through a variety of means, such as:  
- Social Engineering techniques such as phishing.
- Exploiting vulnerabilities through public-facing servers.
- Spraying credentials through exposed authentication endpoints.
- Executing commands through malicious flash drives.
- Installing cracked software with hidden malicious code.  

The common intersection of the given examples above is gaining initial access to either of the following:  
- Account access via a valid credential
- Machine access via a remote code execution  

## Execution
[Execution Tactic (TA0002)](https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/)  
Example techniques used by adversaries are the following:  
- Execution through command-line tools like PowerShell and Windows Command Processor (cmd.exe).
- Execution through built-in system tools or using Living-off-the-land Binaries (LOLBAS).
- Execution through scripting/programming tools, such as Python or PHP.  

|Execution Technique	|Examples|
|:----|----|
|Command-line Tools| Using built-in commands through `powershell.exe` and `cmd.exe` to download and execute the staged payload.|
|Built-in System Tools	| Using `certutil.exe` or `bitsadmin.exe` for downloading the remote payload and `rundll32.exe` to run it.|
|Scripting / Programming Tools	| Using built-in functionalities of programming tools such as Python's `os.system()` or PHP's `exec()`.|  

### Hunting Execution  

- Suspicious usage of command-line tools.  
    `winlogbeat-*`  
    we will hunt process creations (Sysmon Event ID 1) generated by these two tools:  
    `host.name: WKSTN-* AND winlog.event_id: 1 AND process.name: (cmd.exe OR powershell.exe)`
- Abuse of built-in system tools.
- Execution via programming/scripting tools.  
